An abstract noun is a kind of noun which represents ideas, things, and experiences. It is an important part of Nouns. It is an important topic for all students, especially for those who are preparing for competitive examinations. One or more questions from this topic are asked in every competitive examination. 

What is Abstract Noun
In general, nouns refer to ideas, places, things, objects and people. Some ideas or things are not touchable. They do not exist physically and you can not sense them with your five senses. This type of Noun is known as Abstract Noun. It is intangible. 

Abstract Noun Definition
Nouns that can not be tangible or touchable are called Abstract Nouns. Abstract nouns are kinds of ideas, things, and experiences that are invisible, and untouchables. 

Abstract Noun Examples
Love, life, death, pain, trust, honor, pleasure, sadness, madness, fear, happiness, loyalty, stupidity, weakness, maturity, ethics etc. 


List of Abstract Nouns
Ideas : Life, death, pleasure, independence, information, trust 

Emotion : Love, hatred, happiness, sadness, fear. 

Traits : Courage, loyalty, maturity, stupidity, elegance, aggression, patience.


Philosophical Concepts: Relativity, democracy, industrialism, ethics, capitalism. 

Uses of Abstract Nouns in a Sentence
Abstract nouns work as subject as well as objects perfectly in a sentence. It follows the same rules as the other nouns. Abstract nouns can also take a possessive nouns form. It can be singular noun or plural noun. 

Abstract Nouns vs Concrete Nouns 
Both Abstract nouns and concrete nouns are types of Nouns. There are some differences between these two nouns. Here we discussed these differences. 

Abstract Nouns 	Concrete Nouns 
It can not taste, see, smell or touch.	It can taste, see, smell or touch.
As an example, Love is an abstract noun because it can not be touched or seen.	As an example, Boy is a concrete noun because it can be touched or seen.
Verbs and Adjectives Conversion into Abstract Nouns 
Abstract nouns can be created from verbs and adjectives by taking the root word and adding a suffix or prefix. 

Converting Verbs to Abstract Nouns
Move ⇒ movement

Enjoy ⇒ enjoyment

Appoint ⇒ Appointment 

Decide ⇒ decision

Assign ⇒ assignment

Describe ⇒ description

Resist ⇒ resistance

Converting Adjectives to Abstract Nouns
Brave ⇒ bravery

Truth ⇒ truthful

Honest ⇒ honesty

Weak ⇒ weakness 

Sad ⇒ sadness

Mad ⇒ madness

Possible ⇒ possibility 

Silent ⇒ silence

Practice Questions on Abstract Nouns
Read the sentences carefully and identify the abstract nouns given below. 

1. Honesty is the best policy. 

2. Friendship is a valuable thing. 

3. Please keep silence. 

4. You take the right decision. 

5. Madness makes you crazy. 

6. Love makes a man perfect. 

7. Kindness is a great quality of a man. 

8. This is our first victory. 

9. Achievement provides pleasure. 

10. The army showed great courage on the battlefield. 

Answer  

1. Honesty

2. Friendship

3. Silence 

4. Decision

5. Madness 

6. Love 

7. Kindness 

8. Victory

9. Pleasure 

10. Courage 

FAQs on Abstract Nouns
Q1. What is an abstract noun? 
Answer: In general, nouns refer to ideas, places, things, objects and people. Some ideas or things are not touchable. It do not exist physically and you can not sense them with your five senses. This type of noun is known as Abstract Noun. It is intangible.  

Q2. Give some examples of abstract nouns. 
Answer: 1. Honesty

2. Friendship

3. Silence

4. Decision

5. Madness

6. Love

7. Kindness

8. Victory

9. Pleasure

10. Courage 

Q3. Give some examples of abstract nouns in sentences. 
Answer: 1. Honesty is the best policy.

2. Friendship is a valuable thing.

3. Please keep silence.

4. You take the right decision.

5. Madness makes you crazy.

6. Love makes a man perfect.

7. Kindness is a great quality of a man.

8. This is our first victory.

9. Achievement provides pleasure.

10. The army showed great courage in the battlefield. 

Whether you're preparing for your first job interview or aiming to upskill in this ever-evolving tech landscape, GeeksforGeeks Courses are your key to success. We provide top-quality content at affordable prices, all geared towards accelerating your growth in a time-bound manner. Join the millions we've already empowered, and we're here to do the same for you. Don't miss out - check it out now!

Commit to GfG's Three-90 Challenge! Purchase a course, complete 90% in 90 days, and save 90% cost click here to explore.
Last Updated : 13 Jul, 2023

1

Previous
What is Collective Noun? List of Examples, Uses and Exercises
Next
What is a Compound Noun? Definition, Types & Examples
Share your thoughts in the comments

Add Your Comment
Similar Reads
Singular Nouns : Definition, Examples and List
Difference Between Concrete and Abstract Nouns
Common Noun - Definition, Examples, List & Usage
Adverbs of Direction : Definition, Usage, List and Examples
What Are Modal Verbs? – Definition, Usage & Examples
Simile and Examples- Definition, Usage, Meaning and Questions
Coordinating Conjunction - Definition, Types and Usage with Examples
Possessive Pronouns: Definition, Usage and Examples
Hyperbole - Meaning, Definition, Daily Usage and Examples
Adverbs of Frequency - Definition, Examples, and Usage
Complete Tutorials
Reasoning Ability For IBPS Clerk - Prelims & Mains
IBPS Clerk Practice Set Papers
IBPS PO General Awareness Syllabus 2024
English Grammar : Learn Rules of Grammar and Basics
Parts of Speech: Definitions, Examples & 8 Types